>> Mike North: So
the first thing we're going to do,
we're going to check out the project and
then we're going to take a quick look
at how dataflow works in this app.
So I'm gonna check out the repo here.
It's mike-north/peashoot.
So this is the git repo.
You're gonna check this out.
Make sure you're using at least node js23
because of the way module imports work.
So in your authoring environment
you can use Node V and
you should get 23 or greater.
You're going to want to check out the DDD
start branch that should
look like git clone
GitHub.com something like this.
I'm just adding this so
it creates a new folder.
Then you should be able to
run NPM install or NPM I.
And then you should be
able to run NPM run dev.
Sorry, you want to build it
before you run NPM run dev.
Part of this is because the types
package needs to have things in its
build output folder in order for
this dev server to run.
So we're gonna run npm run dev.
Great, and
you should see some feedback here.
You know things are working if you
see like plant saved, plant saved,
garden Is this,
server running on Port 3000.
And if you scroll up,
you should be able to see.
Wow, it's a lot.
You can see we have a lot
of data in this app.
There we go.
Right before it did all of that.
Localhost5173.
If this doesn't work on your machine,
if like you see that something that looks
like that successful build output and
it doesn't work sometimes if you
have something already on this port,
it'll try 5174, but
you should be able to click this and
you'll have to do a little
bit of a refresh.
And then you should see an experience kind
of like what we've got going on here.
If you see that your project
isn't rendering images,
what you're going to want to
do is the way you'll know that
you're in this situation is
if you look at any PNG or
JPEG in this project and
here's an example path of one Packages,
client, public, plant icons,
Apple something png.
If you select one of those files and
you don't see an image,
what likely has happened is you don't have
Git LFS installed and set up in this repo.
So you'll want to install Git lfs,
which I think On a Mac
it's just brew install git lfs Then you're
going to want to set it up in the repo.
What did you do to set
this up in the repo?
>> Speaker 2: Git LFS install.
>> Mike North: Git LFS
install in the repo.
Sorry, I did this a while ago.
Then git lfspull and
that should replace all these little,
what would have been
text pointers in here,
just like little three line text
files that refer to an image.
You're going to actually be downloading
the image and you should then be able to
select these things and
see that something's rendered for you.
Before we get into implementing this
sort of temperature calculator,
let's think about the concepts
that we will have to introduce.
All we have so far in this project and
on the course website
there's a little outline of how
does data flow work in this app.
But there's a place where the request
initiates from the client,
there's a UI component that represents
what's shown on the screen and
then the request is initiated from this
file and there's a calculatedate method.
So let's go look at this.
I'm just going to do command P, paste that
link and there's a calculatedate method.
So, here it is and you can see we
have a CalculateDateRequest and
it looks like we're just
fetching against our API with
a particular path and
we're sending the request as the body.
And then if the response comes back and
it looks okay,
we're apparently parsing it and
returning a date.
And from that point we're going
back into the UI component and
the appropriate thing is
rendered on the screen.
So this is sort of an isolated piece
that represents the client side of this
data flow.
Now where is it happening on the server?
Well, first let's worry
about the contract.
Here we've got a Locations calculatedate
typescript file Locations calculatedate.
Here you can see we've got a request and
a response.
And here are examples
of those Zod schemas.
So we have a location id,
we've got a temperature
with what looks like a number and
then a union type.
And so if we were to look at this,
this is what that sort of amounts to.
So we can just see it
all on the same screen.
A location id and we've got a temperature
value and a temperature unit.
And you can see here like, like this is
the way in Zod you would articulate that.
And then what's the response
we're looking for?
It's a stringified date.
And that makes sense.
Like if we go back to our client side
code, you can see whatever this returns,
we're just kind of like shoving
it into the date constructor.
And so
if this is like an ISO8601 date string, or
like whatever the date constructor is
ready to receive, this should just work.
Otherwise we throw an error.
So where does this land on the server?
So this is the introduction of what
we call our first domain service.
And this is a similarly isolated and
purposeful piece of code,
kind of like what we were just
looking at on the client side,
where we're dealing with locations and
dates.
So it's like in the server package,
it's source services location.
Here you can see we've got
a location service and
we've got a couple methods here.
Let me fold them up so
we can see it at a high level.
We've got a method for getting a location,
getting all locations and
calculating a date, and it returns
a promise that resolves to a date.
So all of these are async.
And an important thing I want
you all to notice here is this
service here is dealing really
in the concept of a location.
The HTTP request and
response stuff is handled elsewhere.
This is part of what it means
to have a domain service.
It is separated from our route for
handling the requests in this code base.
That's what deals with request and
response shapes.
But part of what's useful to
take away from DDD here is this
service should just deal in
the concept of whatever models,
whatever entities are important for
the tasks that we're performing here.
And that way you can test this
very effectively without worrying
about HTTP requests and response.
You're just thinking about
the date objects and
what is stored in memory
in terms of the dates.
Then you can test your HTTP request and
response part of your app by kind of
mocking this and saying, all right,
I've got a stub location service that's
just going to spit the same stuff out.
Now, it's very easy to, in isolation, make
sure the request and response stuff work.
So that's kind of how the data flow works.
Start from a UI component.
In this case, we're using Svelte because
I want it to stay as close to vanilla
typescript as we can, and you should
just be able to set values there and
things should just work.
Just like it's vanilla typescript,
we go into sort of the data
layer piece of our client, which is
this repository, to make the request,
and then ultimately downstream
we end up in this service and
we call Calculatedate or
we call get all locations.